Facebook messenger

https://www.educative.io/courses/grokking-the-system-design-interview/gx7wZzWn5Vj

HTTP Long-Polling
#

This is a variation of the traditional polling technique that allows the server to push information to a client whenever the data is available. With Long-Polling, the client requests information from the server exactly as in normal polling, but with the expectation that the server may not respond immediately. That’s why this technique is sometimes referred to as a “Hanging GET”.

    If the server does not have any data available for the client, instead of sending an empty response, the server holds the request and waits until some data becomes available.
    Once the data becomes available, a full response is sent to the client. The client then immediately re-request information from the server so that the server will almost always have an available waiting request that it can use to deliver data in response to an event.

The basic life cycle of an application using HTTP Long-Polling is as follows:

    The client makes an initial request using regular HTTP and then waits for a response.
    The server delays its response until an update is available or a timeout has occurred.
    When an update is available, the server sends a full response to the client.
    The client typically sends a new long-poll request, either immediately upon receiving a response or after a pause to allow an acceptable latency period.
    Each Long-Poll request has a timeout. The client has to reconnect periodically after the connection is closed due to timeouts.

Long Polling Protocol
Long Polling Protocol
WebSockets
#

WebSocket provides Full duplex communication channels over a single TCP connection. It provides a persistent connection between a client and a server that both parties can use to start sending data at any time. The client establishes a WebSocket connection through a process known as the WebSocket handshake. If the process succeeds, then the server and client can exchange data in both directions at any time. The WebSocket protocol enables communication between a client and a server with lower overheads, facilitating real-time data transfer from and to the server. This is made possible by providing a standardized way for the server to send content to the browser without being asked by the client and allowing for messages to be passed back and forth while keeping the connection open. In this way, a two-way (bi-directional) ongoing conversation can take place between a client and a server.
